---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87919
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Non-system-created file shares on a system must limit access to groups that
    require it.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79711r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73371r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001090
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000250
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Non-system-created file shares on a system must limit access to groups that require it.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Shares on a system provide network access. To prevent exposing sensitive information, where shares are necessary, permissions must be reconfigured to give the minimum access to accounts that require it.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

If a non-system-created share is required on a system, configure the share and NTFS permissions to limit access to the specific groups or accounts that require it.

Remove any unnecessary non-system-created shares.

## /checks/0/description

If only system-created shares such as "ADMIN$", "C$", and "IPC$" exist on the system, this is NA. (System-created shares will display a message that it has been shared for administrative purposes when "Properties" is selected.)

Run "Computer Management".

Navigate to System Tools >> Shared Folders >> Shares.

Right-click any non-system-created shares.

Select "Properties".

Select the "Share Permissions" tab.

If the file shares have not been configured to restrict permissions to the specific groups or accounts that require access, this is a finding.

Select the "Security" tab.

If the permissions have not been configured to restrict permissions to the specific groups or accounts that require access, this is a finding.
