---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88035
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Separate, NSA-approved (Type 1) cryptography must be used to protect the directory
    data in transit for directory service implementations at a classified confidentiality
    level when replication data traverses a network cleared to a lower level than
    the data.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79825r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73457r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002450
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-DC-000140
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Separate, NSA-approved (Type 1) cryptography must be used to protect the directory data in transit for directory service implementations at a classified confidentiality level when replication data traverses a network cleared to a lower level than the data.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Directory data that is not appropriately encrypted is subject to compromise. Commercial-grade encryption does not provide adequate protection when the classification level of directory data in transit is higher than the level of the network.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure NSA-approved (Type 1) cryptography to protect the directory data in transit for directory service implementations at a classified confidentiality level that transfer replication data through a network cleared to a lower level than the data.

## /checks/0/description

This applies to domain controllers. It is NA for other systems.

Review the organization network diagram(s) or documentation to determine the level of classification for the network(s) over which replication data is transmitted.

Determine the classification level of the Windows domain controller.

If the classification level of the Windows domain controller is higher than the level of the networks, review the organization network diagram(s) and directory implementation documentation to determine if NSA-approved encryption is used to protect the replication network traffic.

If the classification level of the Windows domain controller is higher than the level of the network traversed and NSA-approved encryption is not used, this is a finding.
