---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88147
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Local administrator accounts must have their privileged token filtered to prevent
    elevated privileges from being used over the network on domain systems.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79937r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73569r1
    description: <see below>
  - relative_id: '01'
    title: OVAL-based check
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:1172
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2016_V1R7_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001084
    relation: ''
  - system: http://cce.mitre.org
    idref: CCE-50915-8
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-MS-000020
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Local administrator accounts must have their privileged token filtered to prevent elevated privileges from being used over the network on domain systems.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

A compromised local administrator account can provide means for an attacker to move laterally between domain systems.

With User Account Control enabled, filtering the privileged token for local administrator accounts will prevent the elevated privileges of these accounts from being used over the network.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Administrative Templates >> MS Security Guide >> "Apply UAC restrictions to local accounts on network logons" to "Enabled".

This policy setting requires the installation of the SecGuide custom templates included with the STIG package. "SecGuide.admx" and " SecGuide.adml" must be copied to the \Windows\PolicyDefinitions and \Windows\PolicyDefinitions\en-US directories respectively.

## /checks/0/description

This applies to member servers. For domain controllers and standalone systems, this is NA.

If the following registry value does not exist or is not configured as specified, this is a finding.

Registry Hive:  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
Registry Path:  \SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\System

Value Name:  LocalAccountTokenFilterPolicy

Type:  REG_DWORD
Value: 0x00000000 (0)

This setting may cause issues with some network scanning tools if local administrative accounts are used remotely. Scans should use domain accounts where possible. If a local administrative account must be used, temporarily enabling the privileged token by configuring the registry value to "1" may be required.

## /checks/1/description

IASE supplies an OVAL check.
