---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87913
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Accounts must require passwords.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79705r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73365r2
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000764
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000220
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Accounts must require passwords.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

The lack of password protection enables anyone to gain access to the information system, which opens a backdoor opportunity for intruders to compromise the system as well as other resources. Accounts on a system must require passwords.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure all enabled accounts to require passwords.

The password required flag can be set by entering the following on a command line: "Net user [username] /passwordreq:yes", substituting [username] with the name of the user account.

## /checks/0/description

Review the password required status for enabled user accounts.

Open "PowerShell".

Domain Controllers:

Enter "Get-Aduser -Filter * -Properties Passwordnotrequired |FT Name, Passwordnotrequired, Enabled".

Exclude disabled accounts (e.g., DefaultAccount, Guest) and the krbtgt account.

If "Passwordnotrequired" is "True" or blank for any enabled user account, this is a finding.

Member servers and standalone systems:

Enter 'Get-CimInstance -Class Win32_Useraccount -Filter "PasswordRequired=False and LocalAccount=True" | FT Name, PasswordRequired, Disabled, LocalAccount'.

Exclude disabled accounts (e.g., DefaultAccount, Guest).

If any enabled user accounts are returned with a "PasswordRequired" status of "False", this is a finding.
