---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88167
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Credential Guard must be running on domain-joined member servers.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: low
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79957r2
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: org.scapolite.implementation.win_gpo
        ui_path: Computer Configuration\Administrative Templates\System\Device Guard\Turn
            On Virtualization Based Security
        value:
            lock selected for Credential Guard Configuration: Enabled with UEFI lock
                or
            main_setting: Enabled
        verification_status: Checked.
      - system: org.scapolite.implementation.windows_registry
        config: Computer
        registry_key: SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard
        value_name: EnableVirtualizationBasedSecurity
        action: DWORD:1
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73589r2
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-CC-000120
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Credential Guard must be running on domain-joined member servers.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Credential Guard uses virtualization-based security to protect data that could be used in credential theft attacks if compromised. This authentication information, which was stored in the Local Security Authority (LSA) in previous versions of Windows, is isolated from the rest of operating system and can only be accessed by privileged system software.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Administrative Templates >> System >> Device Guard >> "Turn On Virtualization Based Security" to "Enabled" with "Enabled with UEFI lock" or "Enabled without lock" selected for "Credential Guard Configuration".

"Enabled with UEFI lock" is preferred as more secure; however, it cannot be turned off remotely through a group policy change if there is an issue. "Enabled without lock" will allow this to be turned off remotely while testing for issues.

A Microsoft article on Credential Guard system requirement can be found at the following link:

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/credential-guard/credential-guard-requirements

## /checks/0/description

For domain controllers and standalone systems, this is NA.

Current hardware and virtual environments may not support virtualization-based security features, including Credential Guard, due to specific supporting requirements, including a TPM, UEFI with Secure Boot, and the capability to run the Hyper-V feature within a virtual machine.

Open "PowerShell" with elevated privileges (run as administrator).

Enter the following:

"Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_DeviceGuard -Namespace root\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard"

If "SecurityServicesRunning" does not include a value of "1" (e.g., "{1, 2}"), this is a finding.

Alternately:

Run "System Information".

Under "System Summary", verify the following:

If "Device Guard Security Services Running" does not list "Credential Guard", this is finding.

The policy settings referenced in the Fix section will configure the following registry value. However due to hardware requirements, the registry value alone does not ensure proper function.

Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
Registry Path: \SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard\

Value Name: LsaCfgFlags
Value Type: REG_DWORD
Value: 0x00000001 (1) (Enabled with UEFI lock), or 0x00000002 (2) (Enabled without lock)

A Microsoft article on Credential Guard system requirement can be found at the following link:

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/credential-guard/credential-guard-requirements
