---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88099
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Windows Server 2016 must be configured to audit Logon/Logoff - Group Membership
    successes.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79889r1
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: org.scapolite.implementation.win_gpo
        ui_path: Computer Configuration\Windows Settings\Advanced Audit Policy Configuration\System
            Audit Policies\Logon/Logoff\Audit Group Membership
        value: Success
        verification_status: Unchecked.
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73521r2
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000172
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-AU-000240
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Windows Server 2016 must be configured to audit Logon/Logoff - Group Membership successes.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Maintaining an audit trail of system activity logs can help identify configuration errors, troubleshoot service disruptions, and analyze compromises that have occurred, as well as detect attacks. Audit logs are necessary to provide a trail of evidence in case the system or network is compromised. Collecting this data is essential for analyzing the security of information assets and detecting signs of suspicious and unexpected behavior.

Audit Group Membership records information related to the group membership of a user's logon token.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Advanced Audit Policy Configuration >> System Audit Policies >> Logon/Logoff >> "Audit Group Membership" with "Success" selected.

## /checks/0/description

Security Option "Audit: Force audit policy subcategory settings (Windows Vista or later) to override audit policy category settings" must be set to "Enabled" (WN16-SO-000050) for the detailed auditing subcategories to be effective.

Use the AuditPol tool to review the current Audit Policy configuration:

Open an elevated "Command Prompt" (run as administrator).

Enter "AuditPol /get /category:*"

Compare the AuditPol settings with the following.

If the system does not audit the following, this is a finding.

Logon/Logoff >> Group Membership - Success
