---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88165
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Virtualization-based security must be enabled with the platform security level
    configured to Secure Boot or Secure Boot with DMA Protection.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: low
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79955r1
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: org.scapolite.implementation.win_gpo
        ui_path: Computer Configuration\Administrative Templates\System\Device Guard\Turn
            On Virtualization Based Security
        value:
            main_setting: Enabled
            Select Platform Security Level: Secure Boot and DMA Protection
        verification_status: Checked.
      - system: org.scapolite.automation.compound
        automations:
          - system: org.scapolite.implementation.windows_registry
            config: Computer
            registry_key: SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard
            value_name: RequirePlatformSecurityFeatures
            action: DWORD:3
          - system: org.scapolite.implementation.windows_registry
            config: Computer
            registry_key: SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard
            value_name: EnableVirtualizationBasedSecurity
            action: DWORD:1
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73587r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-CC-000110
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Virtualization-based security must be enabled with the platform security level configured to Secure Boot or Secure Boot with DMA Protection.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Virtualization Based Security (VBS) provides the platform for the additional security features Credential Guard and virtualization-based protection of code integrity. Secure Boot is the minimum security level, with DMA protection providing additional memory protection. DMA Protection requires a CPU that supports input/output memory management unit (IOMMU).

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Administrative Templates >> System >> Device Guard >> "Turn On Virtualization Based Security" to "Enabled" with "Secure Boot" or "Secure Boot and DMA Protection" selected.

A Microsoft TechNet article on Credential Guard, including system requirement details, can be found at the following link:

https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/keep-secure/credential-guard

## /checks/0/description

For standalone systems, this is NA.

Current hardware and virtual environments may not support virtualization-based security features, including Credential Guard, due to specific supporting requirements, including a TPM, UEFI with Secure Boot, and the capability to run the Hyper-V feature within a virtual machine.

Open "PowerShell" with elevated privileges (run as administrator).

Enter the following:

"Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_DeviceGuard -Namespace root\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard"

If "RequiredSecurityProperties" does not include a value of "2" indicating "Secure Boot" (e.g., "{1, 2}"), this is a finding.

If "Secure Boot and DMA Protection" is configured, "3" will also be displayed in the results (e.g., "{1, 2, 3}").

If "VirtualizationBasedSecurityStatus" is not a value of "2" indicating "Running", this is a finding.

Alternately:

Run "System Information".

Under "System Summary", verify the following:

If "Device Guard Virtualization based security" does not display "Running", this is finding.

If "Device Guard Required Security Properties" does not display "Base Virtualization Support, Secure Boot", this is finding.

If "Secure Boot and DMA Protection" is configured, "DMA Protection" will also be displayed (e.g., "Base Virtualization Support, Secure Boot, DMA Protection").

The policy settings referenced in the Fix section will configure the following registry values. However, due to hardware requirements, the registry values alone do not ensure proper function.

Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
Registry Path: \SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard\

Value Name: EnableVirtualizationBasedSecurity
Value Type: REG_DWORD
Value: 0x00000001 (1)

Value Name: RequirePlatformSecurityFeatures
Value Type: REG_DWORD
Value: 0x00000001 (1) (Secure Boot only) or 0x00000003 (3) (Secure Boot and DMA Protection)

A Microsoft TechNet article on Credential Guard, including system requirement details, can be found at the following link:

https://technet.microsoft.com/itpro/windows/keep-secure/credential-guard
