---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88169
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Virtualization-based protection of code integrity must be enabled on domain-joined
    systems.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: low
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79959r1
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: org.scapolite.implementation.win_gpo
        ui_path: Computer Configuration \ Administrative Templates\System\Device Guard\Turn
            On Virtualization Based Security
        value:
            main_setting: Enabled
            Virtualization Based Protection of Code Integrity: Enabled with UEFI lock
        verification_status: Checked.
      - system: org.scapolite.automation.compound
        automations:
          - system: org.scapolite.implementation.windows_registry
            config: Computer
            registry_key: SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard
            value_name: HypervisorEnforcedCodeIntegrity
            action: DWORD:1
          - system: org.scapolite.implementation.windows_registry
            config: Computer
            registry_key: SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard
            value_name: EnableVirtualizationBasedSecurity
            action: DWORD:1
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73591r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-CC-000130
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Virtualization-based protection of code integrity must be enabled on domain-joined systems.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Virtualization-based protection of code integrity enforces kernel mode memory protections as well as protecting Code Integrity validation paths. This isolates the processes from the rest of the operating system and can only be accessed by privileged system software.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Administrative Templates >> System >> Device Guard >> "Turn On Virtualization Based Security" to "Enabled" with "Enabled with UEFI lock" or "Enabled without lock" selected for "Virtualization Based Protection for Code Integrity".

"Enabled with UEFI lock" is preferred as more secure; however, it cannot be turned off remotely through a group policy change if there is an issue. "Enabled without lock" will allow this to be turned off remotely while testing for issues.

## /checks/0/description

For standalone systems, this is NA.

Current hardware and virtual environments may not support virtualization-based security features, including Credential Guard, due to specific supporting requirements including a TPM, UEFI with Secure Boot, and the capability to run the Hyper-V feature within a virtual machine.

Open "PowerShell" with elevated privileges (run as administrator).

Enter the following:

"Get-CimInstance -ClassName Win32_DeviceGuard -Namespace root\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard"

If "SecurityServicesRunning" does not include a value of "2" (e.g., "{1, 2}"), this is a finding.

Alternately:

Run "System Information".

Under "System Summary", verify the following:

If "Device Guard Security Services Running" does not list "Hypervisor enforced Code Integrity", this is a finding.

The policy settings referenced in the Fix section will configure the following registry value. However due to hardware requirements, the registry value alone does not ensure proper function.

Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
Registry Path: \SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DeviceGuard\

Value Name: HypervisorEnforcedCodeIntegrity
Value Type: REG_DWORD
Value: 0x00000001 (1) (Enabled with UEFI lock), or 0x00000002 (2) (Enabled without lock)
