---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88411
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: The Create a token object user right must not be assigned to any groups or
    accounts.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: high
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-80197r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73829r1
    description: <see below>
  - relative_id: '01'
    title: OVAL-based check
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:1241
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2016_V1R7_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002235
    relation: ''
  - system: http://cce.mitre.org
    idref: CCE-47295-1
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-UR-000090
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

The Create a token object user right must not be assigned to any groups or accounts.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Inappropriate granting of user rights can provide system, administrative, and other high-level capabilities.

The "Create a token object" user right allows a process to create an access token. This could be used to provide elevated rights and compromise a system.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Local Policies >> User Rights Assignment >> "Create a token object" to be defined but containing no entries (blank).

## /checks/0/description

Verify the effective setting in Local Group Policy Editor.

Run "gpedit.msc".

Navigate to Local Computer Policy >> Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Local Policies >> User Rights Assignment.

If any accounts or groups are granted the "Create a token object" user right, this is a finding.

If an application requires this user right, this would not be a finding.

Vendor documentation must support the requirement for having the user right.

The requirement must be documented with the ISSO.

The application account must meet requirements for application account passwords, such as length (WN16-00-000060) and required frequency of changes (WN16-00-000070).

Passwords for application accounts with this user right must be protected as highly privileged accounts.

## /checks/1/description

IASE supplies an OVAL check.
