---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88215
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Windows Telemetry must be configured to Security or Basic.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-80001r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73633r1
    description: <see below>
  - relative_id: '01'
    title: OVAL-based check
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:24
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2016_V1R7_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-CC-000290
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Windows Telemetry must be configured to Security or Basic.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Some features may communicate with the vendor, sending system information or downloading data or components for the feature. Limiting this capability will prevent potentially sensitive information from being sent outside the enterprise. The "Security" option for Telemetry configures the lowest amount of data, effectively none outside of the Malicious Software Removal Tool (MSRT), Defender, and telemetry client settings. "Basic" sends basic diagnostic and usage data and may be required to support some Microsoft services.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Administrative Templates >> Windows Components >> Data Collection and Preview Builds>> "Allow Telemetry" to "Enabled" with "0 - Security [Enterprise Only]" or "1 - Basic" selected in "Options".

## /checks/0/description

If the following registry value does not exist or is not configured as specified, this is a finding.

Registry Hive: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
Registry Path: \SOFTWARE\Policies\Microsoft\Windows\DataCollection\

Value Name: AllowTelemetry

Type: REG_DWORD
Value: 0x00000000 (0) (Security), 0x00000001 (1) (Basic)

## /checks/1/description

IASE supplies an OVAL check.
