---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87889
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Domain-joined systems must have a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) enabled and
    ready for use.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: low
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79681r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73341r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000100
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Domain-joined systems must have a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) enabled and ready for use.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Credential Guard uses virtualization-based security to protect data that could be used in credential theft attacks if compromised. A number of system requirements must be met in order for Credential Guard to be configured and enabled properly. Without a TPM enabled and ready for use, Credential Guard keys are stored in a less secure method using software.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Ensure domain-joined systems have a TPM that is configured for use. (Versions 2.0 or 1.2 support Credential Guard.)

The TPM must be enabled in the firmware.

Run "tpm.msc" for configuration options in Windows.

## /checks/0/description

For standalone systems, this is NA.

Current hardware and virtual environments may not support virtualization-based security features, including Credential Guard, due to specific supporting requirements including a TPM, UEFI with Secure Boot, and the capability to run the Hyper-V feature within a virtual machine.

Verify the system has a TPM and it is ready for use.

Run "tpm.msc".

Review the sections in the center pane.

"Status" must indicate it has been configured with a message such as "The TPM is ready for use" or "The TPM is on and ownership has been taken".

TPM Manufacturer Information - Specific Version = 2.0 or 1.2

If a TPM is not found or is not ready for use, this is a finding.
