---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87875
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Passwords for the built-in Administrator account must be changed at least every
    60 days.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79667r2
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73327r3
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000199
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000030
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Passwords for the built-in Administrator account must be changed at least every 60 days.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

The longer a password is in use, the greater the opportunity for someone to gain unauthorized knowledge of the password. The built-in Administrator account is not generally used and its password not may be changed as frequently as necessary. Changing the password for the built-in Administrator account on a regular basis will limit its exposure.

Organizations that use an automated tool, such Microsoft's Local Administrator Password Solution (LAPS), on domain-joined systems can configure this to occur more frequently. LAPS will change the password every "30" days by default.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Change the built-in Administrator account password at least every "60" days.

Automated tools, such as Microsoft's LAPS, may be used on domain-joined member servers to accomplish this.

## /checks/0/description

Review the password last set date for the built-in Administrator account.

Domain controllers:

Open "PowerShell".

Enter "Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SID, PasswordLastSet | Where SID -Like "*-500" | Ft Name, SID, PasswordLastSet".

If the "PasswordLastSet" date is greater than "60" days old, this is a finding.

Member servers and standalone systems:

Open "Command Prompt".

Enter 'Net User [account name] | Find /i "Password Last Set"', where [account name] is the name of the built-in administrator account.

(The name of the built-in Administrator account must be changed to something other than "Administrator" per STIG requirements.)

If the "PasswordLastSet" date is greater than "60" days old, this is a finding.
