---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87925
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Systems requiring data at rest protections must employ cryptographic mechanisms
    to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of the information at rest.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79717r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73377r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001199
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002475
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002476
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000280
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Systems requiring data at rest protections must employ cryptographic mechanisms to prevent unauthorized disclosure and modification of the information at rest.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

This requirement addresses protection of user-generated data as well as operating system-specific configuration data. Organizations may choose to employ different mechanisms to achieve confidentiality and integrity protections, as appropriate, in accordance with the security category and/or classification of the information.

Selection of a cryptographic mechanism is based on the need to protect the integrity of organizational information. The strength of the mechanism is commensurate with the security category and/or classification of the information. Organizations have the flexibility to either encrypt all information on storage devices (i.e., full disk encryption) or encrypt specific data structures (e.g., files, records, or fields).

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000185-GPOS-00079, SRG-OS-000404-GPOS-00183, SRG-OS-000405-GPOS-00184

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure systems that require additional protections due to factors such as inadequate physical protection or sensitivity of the data to employ encryption to protect the confidentiality and integrity of all information at rest.

## /checks/0/description

Verify systems that require additional protections due to factors such as inadequate physical protection or sensitivity of the data employ encryption to protect the confidentiality and integrity of all information at rest.

If they do not, this is a finding.
