---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88063
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Event Viewer must be protected from unauthorized modification and deletion.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79853r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73485r1
    description: <see below>
  - relative_id: '01'
    title: OVAL-based check
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:1054
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2016_V1R7_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001494
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001495
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-AU-000060
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Event Viewer must be protected from unauthorized modification and deletion.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Protecting audit information also includes identifying and protecting the tools used to view and manipulate log data. Therefore, protecting audit tools is necessary to prevent unauthorized operation on audit information.

Operating systems providing tools to interface with audit information will leverage user permissions and roles identifying the user accessing the tools and the corresponding rights the user enjoys in order to make access decisions regarding the modification or deletion of audit tools.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000257-GPOS-00098, SRG-OS-000258-GPOS-00099

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the permissions on the "Eventvwr.exe" file to prevent modification by any groups or accounts other than TrustedInstaller. The default permissions listed below satisfy this requirement:

TrustedInstaller - Full Control
Administrators, SYSTEM, Users, ALL APPLICATION PACKAGES, ALL RESTRICTED APPLICATION PACKAGES - Read &amp; Execute

The default location is the "%SystemRoot%\ System32" folder.

## /checks/0/description

Navigate to "%SystemRoot%\System32".

View the permissions on "Eventvwr.exe".

If any groups or accounts other than TrustedInstaller have "Full control" or "Modify" permissions, this is a finding.

The default permissions below satisfy this requirement:

TrustedInstaller - Full Control
Administrators, SYSTEM, Users, ALL APPLICATION PACKAGES, ALL RESTRICTED APPLICATION PACKAGES - Read &amp; Execute

## /checks/1/description

IASE supplies an OVAL check.
