---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88281
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Active Directory user accounts, including administrators, must be configured
    to require the use of a Common Access Card (CAC), Personal Identity Verification
    (PIV)-compliant hardware token, or Alternate Logon Token (ALT) for user authentication.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-80067r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73699r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000765
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000766
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000767
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000768
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001948
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-DC-000310
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Active Directory user accounts, including administrators, must be configured to require the use of a Common Access Card (CAC), Personal Identity Verification (PIV)-compliant hardware token, or Alternate Logon Token (ALT) for user authentication.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Smart cards such as the CAC support a two-factor authentication technique. This provides a higher level of trust in the asserted identity than use of the username and password for authentication.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000105-GPOS-00052, SRG-OS-000106-GPOS-00053, SRG-OS-000107-GPOS-00054, SRG-OS-000108-GPOS-00055, SRG-OS-000375-GPOS-00160

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure all user accounts, including administrator accounts, in Active Directory to enable the option "Smart card is required for interactive logon".

Run "Active Directory Users and Computers" (available from various menus or run "dsa.msc"):

Select the OU where the user accounts are located. (By default this is the Users node; however, accounts may be under other organization-defined OUs.)

Right-click the user account and select "Properties".

Select the "Account" tab.

Check "Smart card is required for interactive logon" in the "Account Options" area.

## /checks/0/description

This applies to domain controllers. It is NA for other systems.

Open "PowerShell".

Enter the following:

"Get-ADUser -Filter {(Enabled -eq $True) -and (SmartcardLogonRequired -eq $False)} | FT Name"
("DistinguishedName" may be substituted for "Name" for more detailed output.)

If any user accounts, including administrators, are listed, this is a finding.

Alternately:

To view sample accounts in "Active Directory Users and Computers" (available from various menus or run "dsa.msc"):

Select the Organizational Unit (OU) where the user accounts are located. (By default, this is the Users node; however, accounts may be under other organization-defined OUs.)

Right-click the sample user account and select "Properties".

Select the "Account" tab.

If any user accounts, including administrators, do not have "Smart card is required for interactive logon" checked in the "Account Options" area, this is a finding.
