---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87873
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Only administrators responsible for the member server or standalone system
    must have Administrator rights on the system.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: high
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-88219r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-81143r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002235
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-MS-000010
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Only administrators responsible for the member server or standalone system must have Administrator rights on the system.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

An account that does not have Administrator duties must not have Administrator rights. Such rights would allow the account to bypass or modify required security restrictions on that machine and make it vulnerable to attack.

System administrators must log on to systems using only accounts with the minimum level of authority necessary.

For domain-joined member servers, the Domain Admins group must be replaced by a domain member server administrator group (see V-36433 in the Active Directory Domain STIG). Restricting highly privileged accounts from the local Administrators group helps mitigate the risk of privilege escalation resulting from credential theft attacks.

Standard user accounts must not be members of the built-in Administrators group.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the local "Administrators" group to include only administrator groups or accounts responsible for administration of the system.

For domain-joined member servers, replace the Domain Admins group with a domain member server administrator group.

Remove any standard user accounts.

## /checks/0/description

This applies to member servers and standalone systems. A separate version applies to domain controllers.

Open "Computer Management".

Navigate to "Groups" under "Local Users and Groups".

Review the local "Administrators" group.

Only administrator groups or accounts responsible for administration of the system may be members of the group.

For domain-joined member servers, the Domain Admins group must be replaced by a domain member server administrator group.

Standard user accounts must not be members of the local Administrator group.

If accounts that do not have responsibility for administration of the system are members of the local Administrators group, this is a finding.

If the built-in Administrator account or other required administrative accounts are found on the system, this is not a finding.
