---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87883
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Manually managed application account passwords must be changed at least annually
    or when a system administrator with knowledge of the password leaves the organization.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79675r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73335r2
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000070
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Manually managed application account passwords must be changed at least annually or when a system administrator with knowledge of the password leaves the organization.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Setting application account passwords to expire may cause applications to stop functioning. However, not changing them on a regular basis exposes them to attack. If managed service accounts are used, this alleviates the need to manually change application account passwords.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Change passwords for manually managed application/service accounts at least annually or when an administrator with knowledge of the password leaves the organization.

It is recommended that system-managed service accounts be used whenever possible.

## /checks/0/description

Determine if manually managed application/service accounts exist. If none exist, this is NA.

If passwords for manually managed application/service accounts are not changed at least annually or when an administrator with knowledge of the password leaves the organization, this is a finding.

Identify manually managed application/service accounts.

To determine the date a password was last changed:

Domain controllers:

Open "PowerShell".

Enter "Get-AdUser -Identity [application account name] -Properties PasswordLastSet | FT Name, PasswordLastSet", where [application account name] is the name of the manually managed application/service account.

If the "PasswordLastSet" date is more than one year old, this is a finding.

Member servers and standalone systems:

Open "Command Prompt".

Enter 'Net User [application account name] | Find /i "Password Last Set"', where [application account name] is the name of the manually managed application/service account.

If the "Password Last Set" date is more than one year old, this is a finding.
