---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87877
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Administrative accounts must not be used with applications that access the
    Internet, such as web browsers, or with potential Internet sources, such as email.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: high
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79669r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73329r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000040
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Administrative accounts must not be used with applications that access the Internet, such as web browsers, or with potential Internet sources, such as email.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Using applications that access the Internet or have potential Internet sources using administrative privileges exposes a system to compromise. If a flaw in an application is exploited while running as a privileged user, the entire system could be compromised. Web browsers and email are common attack vectors for introducing malicious code and must not be run with an administrative account.

Since administrative accounts may generally change or work around technical restrictions for running a web browser or other applications, it is essential that policy require administrative accounts to not access the Internet or use applications such as email.

The policy should define specific exceptions for local service administration. These exceptions may include HTTP(S)-based tools that are used for the administration of the local system, services, or attached devices.

Whitelisting can be used to enforce the policy to ensure compliance.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Establish a policy, at minimum, to prohibit administrative accounts from using applications that access the Internet, such as web browsers, or with potential Internet sources, such as email. Ensure the policy is enforced.

The organization may use technical means such as whitelisting to prevent the use of browsers and mail applications to enforce this requirement.

## /checks/0/description

Determine whether organization policy, at a minimum, prohibits administrative accounts from using applications that access the Internet, such as web browsers, or with potential Internet sources, such as email, except as necessary for local service administration.

If it does not, this is a finding.

The organization may use technical means such as whitelisting to prevent the use of browsers and mail applications to enforce this requirement.
