---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88031
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Data files owned by users must be on a different logical partition from the
    directory server data files.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79821r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73453r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001090
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-DC-000120
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Data files owned by users must be on a different logical partition from the directory server data files.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

When directory service data files, especially for directories used for identification, authentication, or authorization, reside on the same logical partition as user-owned files, the directory service data may be more vulnerable to unauthorized access or other availability compromises. Directory service and user-owned data files sharing a partition may be configured with less restrictive permissions in order to allow access to the user data.

The directory service may be vulnerable to a denial of service attack when user-owned files on a common partition are expanded to an extent preventing the directory service from acquiring more space for directory or audit data.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Move shares used to store files owned by users to a different logical partition than the directory server data files.

## /checks/0/description

This applies to domain controllers. It is NA for other systems.

Run "Regedit".

Navigate to "HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\NTDS\Parameters".

Note the directory locations in the values for "DSA Database file".

Open "Command Prompt".

Enter "net share".

Note the logical drive(s) or file system partition for any organization-created data shares.

Ignore system shares (e.g., NETLOGON, SYSVOL, and administrative shares ending in $). User shares that are hidden (ending with $) should not be ignored.

If user shares are located on the same logical partition as the directory server data files, this is a finding.
