---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88103
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Windows Server 2016 must be configured to audit Logon/Logoff - Logon successes.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79893r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73525r1
    description: <see below>
  - relative_id: '01'
    title: OVAL-based check
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:1065
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2016_V1R7_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000067
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000172
    relation: ''
  - system: http://cce.mitre.org
    idref: CCE-45977-6
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-AU-000260
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Windows Server 2016 must be configured to audit Logon/Logoff - Logon successes.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Maintaining an audit trail of system activity logs can help identify configuration errors, troubleshoot service disruptions, and analyze compromises that have occurred, as well as detect attacks. Audit logs are necessary to provide a trail of evidence in case the system or network is compromised. Collecting this data is essential for analyzing the security of information assets and detecting signs of suspicious and unexpected behavior.

Logon records user logons. If this is an interactive logon, it is recorded on the local system. If it is to a network share, it is recorded on the system accessed.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000032-GPOS-00013, SRG-OS-000470-GPOS-00214, SRG-OS-000472-GPOS-00217, SRG-OS-000473-GPOS-00218, SRG-OS-000475-GPOS-00220

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Advanced Audit Policy Configuration >> System Audit Policies >> Logon/Logoff >> "Audit Logon" with "Success" selected.

## /checks/0/description

Security Option "Audit: Force audit policy subcategory settings (Windows Vista or later) to override audit policy category settings" must be set to "Enabled" (WN16-SO-000050) for the detailed auditing subcategories to be effective.

Use the AuditPol tool to review the current Audit Policy configuration:

Open an elevated "Command Prompt" (run as administrator).

Enter "AuditPol /get /category:*".

Compare the AuditPol settings with the following.

If the system does not audit the following, this is a finding.

Logon/Logoff >> Logon - Success

## /checks/1/description

IASE supplies an OVAL check.
