---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87915
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Passwords must be configured to expire.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79707r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73367r2
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000199
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000230
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Passwords must be configured to expire.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Passwords that do not expire or are reused increase the exposure of a password with greater probability of being discovered or cracked.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure all enabled user account passwords to expire.

Uncheck "Password never expires" for all enabled user accounts in Active Directory Users and Computers for domain accounts and Users in Computer Management for member servers and standalone systems. Document any exceptions with the ISSO.

## /checks/0/description

Review the password never expires status for enabled user accounts.

Open "PowerShell".

Domain Controllers:

Enter "Search-ADAccount -PasswordNeverExpires -UsersOnly | FT Name, PasswordNeverExpires, Enabled".

Exclude application accounts, disabled accounts (e.g., DefaultAccount, Guest) and the krbtgt account.

If any enabled user accounts are returned with a "PasswordNeverExpires" status of "True", this is a finding.

Member servers and standalone systems:

Enter 'Get-CimInstance -Class Win32_Useraccount -Filter "PasswordExpires=False and LocalAccount=True" | FT Name, PasswordExpires, Disabled, LocalAccount'.

Exclude application accounts and disabled accounts (e.g., DefaultAccount, Guest).

If any enabled user accounts are returned with a "PasswordExpires" status of "False", this is a finding.
