---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87871
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Only administrators responsible for the domain controller must have Administrator
    rights on the system.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: high
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79665r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73321r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002235
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-DC-000010
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Only administrators responsible for the domain controller must have Administrator rights on the system.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

An account that does not have Administrator duties must not have Administrator rights. Such rights would allow the account to bypass or modify required security restrictions on that machine and make it vulnerable to attack.

System administrators must log on to systems using only accounts with the minimum level of authority necessary.

Standard user accounts must not be members of the built-in Administrators group.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the Administrators group to include only administrator groups or accounts that are responsible for the system.

Remove any standard user accounts.

## /checks/0/description

This applies to domain controllers. A separate version applies to other systems.

Review the Administrators group. Only the appropriate administrator groups or accounts responsible for administration of the system may be members of the group.

Standard user accounts must not be members of the local administrator group.

If prohibited accounts are members of the local administrators group, this is a finding.

If the built-in Administrator account or other required administrative accounts are found on the system, this is not a finding.
