---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88111
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Windows Server 2016 must be configured to audit Object Access - Removable Storage
    failures.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79901r1
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: org.scapolite.implementation.win_gpo
        ui_path: Computer Configuration\Windows Settings\Security Settings\Advanced
            Audit Policy Configuration\System Audit Policies\Object Access\Audit Removable
            Storage
        value: Failure
        verification_status: Unchecked.
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73533r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000172
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-AU-000300
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Windows Server 2016 must be configured to audit Object Access - Removable Storage failures.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Maintaining an audit trail of system activity logs can help identify configuration errors, troubleshoot service disruptions, and analyze compromises that have occurred, as well as detect attacks. Audit logs are necessary to provide a trail of evidence in case the system or network is compromised. Collecting this data is essential for analyzing the security of information assets and detecting signs of suspicious and unexpected behavior.

Removable Storage auditing under Object Access records events related to access attempts on file system objects on removable storage devices.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Advanced Audit Policy Configuration >> System Audit Policies >> Object Access >> "Audit Removable Storage" with "Failure" selected.

## /checks/0/description

Security Option "Audit: Force audit policy subcategory settings (Windows Vista or later) to override audit policy category settings" must be set to "Enabled" (WN16-SO-000050) for the detailed auditing subcategories to be effective.

Use the AuditPol tool to review the current Audit Policy configuration:

Open an elevated "Command Prompt" (run as administrator).

Enter "AuditPol /get /category:*".

Compare the AuditPol settings with the following.

If the system does not audit the following, this is a finding.

Object Access >> Removable Storage - Failure

Virtual machines or systems that use network attached storage may generate excessive audit events for secondary virtual drives or the network attached storage when this setting is enabled. This may be set to Not Configured in such cases and would not be a finding.
