---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88015
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: The Kerberos user ticket lifetime must be limited to 10 hours or less.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79805r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73437r2
    description: <see below>
  - relative_id: '01'
    title: OVAL-based check
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:1132
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2016_V1R7_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001941
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-001942
    relation: ''
  - system: http://cce.mitre.org
    idref: CCE-44462-0
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-DC-000040
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

The Kerberos user ticket lifetime must be limited to 10 hours or less.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

In Kerberos, there are two types of tickets: Ticket Granting Tickets (TGTs) and Service Tickets. Kerberos tickets have a limited lifetime so the time an attacker has to implement an attack is limited. This policy controls how long TGTs can be renewed. With Kerberos, the user's initial authentication to the domain controller results in a TGT, which is then used to request Service Tickets to resources. Upon startup, each computer gets a TGT before requesting a service ticket to the domain controller and any other computers it needs to access. For services that start up under a specified user account, users must always get a TGT first and then get Service Tickets to all computers and services accessed.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000112-GPOS-00057, SRG-OS-000113-GPOS-00058

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value in the Default Domain Policy for Computer Configuration >> Policies >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Account Policies >> Kerberos Policy >> "Maximum lifetime for user ticket" to a maximum of "10" hours but not "0", which equates to "Ticket doesn't expire".

## /checks/0/description

This applies to domain controllers. It is NA for other systems.

Verify the following is configured in the Default Domain Policy.

Open "Group Policy Management".

Navigate to "Group Policy Objects" in the Domain being reviewed (Forest >> Domains >> Domain).

Right-click on the "Default Domain Policy".

Select "Edit".

Navigate to Computer Configuration >> Policies >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Account Policies >> Kerberos Policy.

If the value for "Maximum lifetime for user ticket" is "0" or greater than "10" hours, this is a finding.

## /checks/1/description

IASE supplies an OVAL check.
