---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88279
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: PKI certificates associated with user accounts must be issued by the DoD PKI
    or an approved External Certificate Authority (ECA).
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: high
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-80065r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-77755r2
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000185
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r2
    action: created
    description: WN16-DC-000300
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

PKI certificates associated with user accounts must be issued by the DoD PKI or an approved External Certificate Authority (ECA).

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

A PKI implementation depends on the practices established by the Certificate Authority (CA) to ensure the implementation is secure. Without proper practices, the certificates issued by a CA have limited value in authentication functions.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Map user accounts to PKI certificates using the appropriate User Principal Name (UPN) for the network. See PKE documentation for details.

## /checks/0/description

This applies to domain controllers. It is NA for other systems.

Review user account mappings to PKI certificates.

Open "Windows PowerShell".

Enter "Get-ADUser -Filter * | FT Name, UserPrincipalName, Enabled".

Exclude disabled accounts (e.g., DefaultAccount, Guest) and the krbtgt account.

If the User Principal Name (UPN) is not in the format of an individual's identifier for the certificate type and for the appropriate domain suffix, this is a finding.

For standard NIPRNet certificates the individual's identifier is in the format of an Electronic Data Interchange - Personnel Identifier (EDI-PI).

Alt Tokens and other certificates may use a different UPN format than the EDI-PI which vary by organization. Verified these with the organization.

NIPRNet Example:
Name - User Principal Name
User1 - 1234567890@mil

See PKE documentation for other network domain suffixes.

If the mappings are to certificates issued by a CA authorized by the Component's CIO, this is a CAT II finding.
