---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88451
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: The Increase scheduling priority user right must only be assigned to the Administrators
    group.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-80237r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73869r1
    description: <see below>
  - relative_id: '01'
    title: OVAL-based check
    description: <see below>
    automations:
      - system: http://oval.mitre.org/XMLSchema/oval-definitions-5
        idref: oval:mil.disa.stig.windows:def:1249
        href: U_MS_Windows_Server_2016_V1R7_STIG_SCAP_1-2_Benchmark-oval.xml
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002235
    relation: ''
  - system: http://cce.mitre.org
    idref: CCE-47022-9
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-UR-000230
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

The Increase scheduling priority user right must only be assigned to the Administrators group.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Inappropriate granting of user rights can provide system, administrative, and other high-level capabilities.

Accounts with the "Increase scheduling priority" user right can change a scheduling priority, causing performance issues or a denial of service.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure the policy value for Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Local Policies >> User Rights Assignment >> "Increase scheduling priority" to include only the following accounts or groups:

- Administrators

## /checks/0/description

Verify the effective setting in Local Group Policy Editor.

Run "gpedit.msc".

Navigate to Local Computer Policy >> Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Local Policies >> User Rights Assignment.

If any accounts or groups other than the following are granted the "Increase scheduling priority" user right, this is a finding.

- Administrators

If an application requires this user right, this would not be a finding.

Vendor documentation must support the requirement for having the user right.

The requirement must be documented with the ISSO.

The application account must meet requirements for application account passwords, such as length (WN16-00-000060) and required frequency of changes (WN16-00-000070).

## /checks/1/description

IASE supplies an OVAL check.
