---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-87927
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Protection methods such as TLS, encrypted VPNs, or IPsec must be implemented
    if the data owner has a strict requirement for ensuring data integrity and confidentiality
    is maintained at every step of the data transfer and handling process.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79719r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73379r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002420
    relation: ''
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002422
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000290
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Protection methods such as TLS, encrypted VPNs, or IPsec must be implemented if the data owner has a strict requirement for ensuring data integrity and confidentiality is maintained at every step of the data transfer and handling process.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Information can be either unintentionally or maliciously disclosed or modified during preparation for transmission, for example, during aggregation, at protocol transformation points, and during packing/unpacking. These unauthorized disclosures or modifications compromise the confidentiality or integrity of the information.

Ensuring the confidentiality of transmitted information requires the operating system to take measures in preparing information for transmission. This can be accomplished via access control and encryption.

Use of this requirement will be limited to situations where the data owner has a strict requirement for ensuring data integrity and confidentiality is maintained at every step of the data transfer and handling process. When transmitting data, operating systems need to support transmission protection mechanisms such as TLS, encrypted VPNs, or IPsec.

Satisfies: SRG-OS-000425-GPOS-00189, SRG-OS-000426-GPOS-00190

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Configure protection methods such as TLS, encrypted VPNs, or IPsec when the data owner has a strict requirement for ensuring data integrity and confidentiality is maintained at every step of the data transfer and handling process.

## /checks/0/description

If the data owner has a strict requirement for ensuring data integrity and confidentiality is maintained at every step of the data transfer and handling process, verify protection methods such as TLS, encrypted VPNs, or IPsec have been implemented.

If protection methods have not been implemented, this is a finding.
