---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-92833
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: Orphaned security identifiers (SIDs) must be removed from user rights on Windows
    2016.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: medium
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-84849r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-77701r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-000366
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-00-000460
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

Orphaned security identifiers (SIDs) must be removed from user rights on Windows 2016.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Accounts or groups given rights on a system may show up as unresolved SIDs for various reasons including deletion of the accounts or groups.  If the account or group objects are reanimated, there is a potential they may still have rights no longer intended.  Valid domain accounts or groups may also show up as unresolved SIDs if a connection to the domain cannot be established for some reason.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Remove any unresolved SIDs found in User Rights assignments and determined to not be for currently valid accounts or groups by removing the accounts or groups from the appropriate group policy.

## /checks/0/description

Review the effective User Rights setting in Local Group Policy Editor.
Run "gpedit.msc".

Navigate to Local Computer Policy >> Computer Configuration >> Windows Settings >> Security Settings >> Local Policies >> User Rights Assignment.

Review each User Right listed for any unresolved SIDs to determine whether they are valid, such as due to being temporarily disconnected from the domain. (Unresolved SIDs have the format of "*S-1-&#8230;".)

If any unresolved SIDs exist and are not for currently valid accounts or groups, this is a finding.
