---
scapolite:
    class: rule
    version: '0.51'
id: SV-88023
id_namespace: mil.disa.Windows-Server-2016-STIG
title: The Active Directory SYSVOL directory must have the proper access control permissions.
rule: <see below>
description: <see below>
applicability:
  - system: org.scapolite.xccdf.applicability
    weight: 10.0
    selected: false
    role: ''
    severity: high
implementations:
  - relative_id: F-79813r1
    description: <see below>
checks:
  - relative_id: C-73445r1
    description: <see below>
crossrefs:
  - system: http://iase.disa.mil/cci
    idref: CCI-002235
    relation: ''
history:
  - version: r1
    action: created
    description: WN16-DC-000080
    internal_comment: ''
---


## /rule

The Active Directory SYSVOL directory must have the proper access control permissions.

## /description

[**VulnDiscussion**]{.separator type='STIG'}

Improper access permissions for directory data files could allow unauthorized users to read, modify, or delete directory data.

The SYSVOL directory contains public files (to the domain) such as policies and logon scripts. Data in shared subdirectories are replicated to all domain controllers in a domain.

[**Documentable**]{.separator type='STIG'}

false

## /implementations/0/description

Maintain the permissions on the SYSVOL directory. Do not allow greater than "Read &amp; execute" permissions for standard user accounts or groups. The defaults below meet this requirement.

C:\Windows\SYSVOL
Type - "Allow" for all
Inherited from - "None" for all

Principal - Access - Applies to

Authenticated Users - Read &amp; execute - This folder, subfolder, and files
Server Operators - Read &amp; execute- This folder, subfolder, and files
Administrators - Special - This folder only (Special = Basic Permissions: all selected except Full control)
CREATOR OWNER - Full control - Subfolders and files only
Administrators - Full control - Subfolders and files only
SYSTEM - Full control - This folder, subfolders, and files

## /checks/0/description

This applies to domain controllers. It is NA for other systems.

Open a command prompt.

Run "net share".

Make note of the directory location of the SYSVOL share.

By default, this will be \Windows\SYSVOL\sysvol. For this requirement, permissions will be verified at the first SYSVOL directory level.

If any standard user accounts or groups have greater than "Read &amp; execute" permissions, this is a finding.

The default permissions noted below meet this requirement.

Open "Command Prompt".

Run "icacls c:\Windows\SYSVOL".

The following results should be displayed:

NT AUTHORITY\Authenticated Users:(RX)
NT AUTHORITY\Authenticated Users:(OI)(CI)(IO)(GR,GE)
BUILTIN\Server Operators:(RX)
BUILTIN\Server Operators:(OI)(CI)(IO)(GR,GE)
BUILTIN\Administrators:(M,WDAC,WO)
BUILTIN\Administrators:(OI)(CI)(IO)(F)
NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM:(F)
NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM:(OI)(CI)(IO)(F)
BUILTIN\Administrators:(M,WDAC,WO)
CREATOR OWNER:(OI)(CI)(IO)(F)

(RX) - Read &amp; execute

Run "icacls /help" to view definitions of other permission codes.

Alternately, open "File Explorer".

Navigate to \Windows\SYSVOL (or the directory noted previously if different).

Right-click the directory and select properties.

Select the "Security" tab and click "Advanced".

Default permissions:

C:\Windows\SYSVOL
Type - "Allow" for all
Inherited from - "None" for all

Principal - Access - Applies to

Authenticated Users - Read &amp; execute - This folder, subfolder, and files
Server Operators - Read &amp; execute- This folder, subfolder, and files
Administrators - Special - This folder only (Special = Basic Permissions: all selected except Full control)
CREATOR OWNER - Full control - Subfolders and files only
Administrators - Full control - Subfolders and files only
SYSTEM - Full control - This folder, subfolders, and files
